chore: tweak html tree validation (#12618)
sveltejs/svelte: packages/svelte/messages/compile-errors/template.md

> > %thing% is invalid inside <%parent%>

Reviewer: I don't think we're giving enough diagnostic information here. If I saw this error message...

> `<tr>` is invalid inside `<table>`

...I would tear my hair out. I think we need some supplemental information at the very least, but it'd be better still if we just _handled_ this case. What would it take for us to do that?

Author: I poked a bit at it this morning but didn't get very far - opened a draft PR for visibility #12628

HTML has some restrictions where certain elements can appear. For example, a `<div>` inside a `<p>` is invalid. Some violations "only" result in invalid HTML, others result in the HTML being repaired by the browser, resulting in content shifting around. Some examples:

- `<p>hello <div>world</div></p>` will result in `<p>hello </p><div>world</div><p></p>` for example (the `<div>` autoclosed the `<p>`)

> - `<option><div>option a</div></select>` will result in `<option>option a</option>` (the `<div>` is removed)

Reviewer 2: The `</select>` closing tag should probably be `</option>` here.

Author: You're right, thanks for noticing!

> HTML has some restrictions where certain elements can appear. For example, a `<div>` inside a `<p>` is invalid. Some violations "only" result in invalid HTML, others result in the HTML being repaired by the browser, resulting in content shifting around. Some examples:
> 
> - `<p>hello <div>world</div></p>` will result in `<p>hello </p><div>world</div><p></p>` for example (the `<div>` autoclosed the `<p>`)
> - `<option><div>option a</div></option>` will result in `<option>option a</option>` (the `<div>` is removed)
> - `<table><tr><td>cell</td></tr></table>` will result in `<table><tbody><tr><td>cell</td></tr></tbody></table>` (a `<tbody>` is auto-inserted)
> 
> Svelte throws a compiler error when it detects that it will generate the HTML in such a way that it will always be repaired and result in the runtime code not finding the nodes at the expected locations.

Reviewer: I think we can shrink this a bit:

```suggestion
HTML restricts where certain elements can appear. For example, a `<p>` element cannot contain another `<p>`, or a `<div>`, or any other block-level element. The browser will 'repair' the HTML in a way that breaks Svelte's assumptions about the structure of your components. Some more examples:

- `<option><div>...</div></option>` will result in `<option>...</option>` (everything except text is removed)
- `<table><tr><td>...</td></tr></table>` will result in `<table><tbody><tr><td>...</td></tr></tbody></table>` (a `<tbody>` is auto-inserted)
```

I'm curious about this:

> Some violations "only" result in invalid HTML

What are those violations? Are they relevant in this context? Are we doing anything to prevent them? If not then I don't think we need to mention them

Author: ```suggestion
HTML restricts where certain elements can appear. In case of a violation the browser will 'repair' the HTML in a way that breaks Svelte's assumptions about the structure of your components. Some examples:

- `<p>hello <div>world</div></p>` will result in `<p>hello </p><div>world</div><p></p>` for example (the `<div>` autoclosed the `<p>` because `<p>` cannot contain block-level elements)
- `<option><div>option a</div></option>` will result in `<option>option a</option>` (the `<div>` is removed)
- `<table><tr><td>cell</td></tr></table>` will result in `<table><tbody><tr><td>cell</td></tr></tbody></table>` (a `<tbody>` is auto-inserted)

Svelte throws a compiler error when it detects that it will generate the HTML in such a way that it will always be repaired and result in the runtime code not finding the nodes at the expected locations.
```

The last sentence is because there's a warning version of this, and so they provide context on why one throws while the other is a warning.

Reviewer: I think the last sentence is unnecessary tbh — we've just explained why the HTML is invalid, so why _wouldn't_ we throw an error? I reckon we can get away with just explaining why we're _not_ throwing an error on the warning message

Author: Ok let's do away with the last sentence - updated my previous suggestion
